Team: Breakout Room 5
Members: Spencer Lang, Reymon Pedroza, Max Yulei Guo
Project: P1A.1 Concept Description
	Github URL: 
	Primary Author: Spencer Lang
	
Our essential idea is to create a system that takes advantage of a user’s current array of credit cards and create a tool that will enable them to optimize their usage of cards. The ultimate hope would be to create a product that would enable us to distribute physical cards that can be used as proxies for their other credit cards. There are several factors that we hope to take into account while optimizing each card.  Some of these factors are APR, transaction fees, rewards, fees and penalties, and credit score factors. In order to properly optimize cards, we will have to reduce each card into some common schema so that they may be compared somewhat evenly. This will present one of the most interesting problems in our project. We will also have to figure out strategies to ensure the correctness of the algorithm over time. For example, there are frequent promotions on certain cards that activate new benefits. This would ideally be a consideration that we could take into account. We also see a gap in the current ecosystem for personal financial management applications. Apps like Mint and Bank specific apps likely don’t allow enough analysis on spending. Furthermore, a companion app would enable us to more easily extend the project later and add features such as provisioning multiple cards. This would be a valuable product because most credit card users actually do not know much about how credit works or enough to compare credit cards. It is actually a rather complex decision and it would be sometimes rather unreasonable for any given person to do the calculations required to make the “correct” credit card choice. However, with a simple app, or more ideally, a proxy card, the decision could be made automatically to optimize both the rewards and the drawbacks of any given credit card. Most people have around 3-4 credit cards, so without optimizing decisions, there is inefficiency within the market. Furthermore, with a comprehensive schema to compare cards, there is hope that there will be an incentive for credit card distributors to improve their card offerings to remain competitive. This project is something we are definitely capable of designing because there are so many components that can be added and subtracted from the main project making it highly scalable to suit the needs of this class. This is fun to work on because not only is it an interesting problem, but it is also building a product that we would have an interest in using in our lives, so this project will feel very real and applicable to when we one day go and make products for consumers. 
