Team: Breakout Room 5
Members: Spencer Lang, Reymon Pedroza, Max Yulei Guo
Project: P1B Competitive Research and Positioning 
	Github URL: https://github.com/slang21/CS121/blob/master/report_1b.txt
	Primary Author: All members
Current Observable “Competitors”: 
“Middle Man” Payment Methods (protecting users through layering payment): Apple Pay, Amazon Pay, PayPal, Google pay, Privacy card, 
Card Aggregation (allows you to pay from multiple cards using one source): Apple Pay, Amazon Pay, PayPal, Google pay
Credit Card Management software (help with payments etc.): Grutor mentioned “Mint”, YNAB, 
Credit optimizers (gives advice on improving credit/benefits): Card recommenders, Nerd Wallet



Apple Pay: A contactless payment method for Apple Devices. When paying you can choose the cards that you have set up on the device.
	Apple Pay Benefits
		Provides cardholders several layers of security
		Passcode and Touch/Face ID
		Unique Token upon use (merchants never get card number)
		Apple doesn’t store card on device or servers
		Allows selection of card before payment
		Works with most Apple devices (IPhones/Watches)
		Apple Pay doesn't share static information or require a swipe
		Information cannot be skimmed 
		Prevents scanning of magnetic strip or chip of credit cards
		Can suspend device and disable Apple Pay
		Can be used in several countries
	Apple Pay Weaknesses
		Only for Apple users
		Face/Touch ID can be bypassed through device passcode
		Sharing passcode could allow someone to make their own biometric profile and use Apple Pay
		Dangerous to add cards if on an unsecure Wi-Fi network,
		Stolen device allows access to credit cards
		Some locations do not use app payments or prefer cash/card only
		Bad iCloud reputation causing users to be scared of using Apple Pay
		No prepaid account
		No built-in prepaid account for customers whose banks don’t participate 
For Card Aggregation and “Middle Man” Payment Methods (other than Privacy Cards):
	General Benefits of Mobile/Device payment methods:
		Simple
		Generally easy to set up and use
		Safety
		Most have high level of security
		No longer have to worry about losing cards or getting it skimmed
		Convenience
		Wallet no longer needed; only device
		Advertised
		Active promotion and reward programs

	General Weaknesses of Mobile/Device payment methods:
		Merchant Discretion 
		Stores might prefer physical payments such as cash or card
		Online stores might not support certain payment methods or rely on card 
		Dependent On Devices
		Some devices don’t support certain payment methods
		Apple pay only on Apple devices
		Older phones might not support the apps
		Can’t pay without device
		If lost, app is deleted, or battery dies, you can't pay
		Concerns of Data Privacy
		Concerns about how secure the security is
		Concerns about whether traces during transaction can be monitored
		Lack of physical receipts (transactions are recorded)
	In summary, for both card aggregation and payment methods, we can utilize the same concepts of simplicity and ease of use. We can utilize the idea of not using the actual cards for security and ease of use reasons. The merchant discretion weakness would still apply since our method would be using the same cards. Our method should be equally safe as using electronic payment methods. None of the competitors use card optimization.

Privacy Card: A privacy card is essentially a temporary card number that a credit or debit card number can be linked to through a website or on a mobile app. Main website recommended is Privacy.com for US customers and Revolut for the UK. Privacy.com creates debit card numbers and makes their profit through a transaction cut from Visa.
	Privacy Card Benefits
		Free to use
		No credit check
		Option of regular use or one-time
		Prevents overcharging from websites
		Can be locked to specific merchants to prevent card being used elsewhere 
		Bypass use of cards on unsecured websites

	Privacy Card Weaknesses 
		Bypasses card info and straight to bank (Specifically for Privacy.com as of 2017)
		Does not use a credit or debit cards as the funding source
		Makes a Visa debit card tied to the bank account
	Summary: Privacy card is probably the most similar platform to what we are trying to build. It enables users to provision several cards and hook them up to various funding sources. We hope to build this into a physical card platform, and take away the necessity for users to make the decision themselves.


Credit Optimizers 

Example Services: Nerdwallet, CreditKarma, other card recommenders and personal finance blogs

	Summary: currently, most credit optimizers are done on an individual basis. It is mostly services that recommend best practices and new credit cards that would suit different lifestyles. However, most of these services are, as aforementioned, rather dense/only really worthwhile if someone has a preexisting interest in improving their credit/rewards. This means that for the average person who likely does not care that much, these services are not necessarily a likely investment.
	
	Strengths:
		Offer very interesting and potentially hard to access information easily
		Attempts to give advice for people in varying credit/financial situations.
		Lots and lots of data and research goes into their articles, and they frequently have the most up to date info concerning the personal finance landscape
		Give a wide diversity of tips on how people can better manage their credit spending
	Weaknesses
		These are harder to access for the layperson.
		They can be rather dense and require some study
		They require the pearson to actively manage their credit spending, it is simply advice that a person can choose to follow.
		Note: this part was done in aggregate because we believe that they offer similar services, and are not necessarily our main competitors. In fact it would be interesting to conduct more research into whether people who frequent these kinds of sites would even be interested in a product where they may lose some control over what card is chosen in a given transaction. 

Credit Management

Example Service: Mint, YNAB

	Summary: Current credit management tools are powerful in displaying financial data and helping your budgeting. However, they do not really offer any suggestions or optimization of credit usage. There is a potential room to make the credit platform smarter.

	Strengths:
		Mint is capable of managing your finances in one single platform, including cash, credit and debit.
		Mint helps you to make the budget, monitor spendings, and practice finance management skills.
		Mint allows you to track investment and portfolio quickly.
		Mint cooperates with most U.S. financial institutions and provides strict security protocols.

	Weakness:

		Mint is not a payment platform. In other words, Mint can only record your transactions.
		Mint has no features of credit optimization or suggestion available.
		Mint offers many credit card promotions but barely helps people to make smart choices.
-----------------------
Complete Summary: 

For all competitors, we would maintain similar benefits. We can utilize the idea of not being a credit lender ourselves to provide similar security and improved 
ease of use. Our method should be equally safe as using electronic payment methods. None of our competitors use automated card optimization. Financial
recommenders have benefits such as providing a wide diversity of tips on how people can better manage their credit spending that we could use or improve on. 
However, they do not allow people to make payments utilizing this payment. Credit card management platforms have the advantage of managing your finances in one 
single platform as well as tracking transactions. 

The common benefit between all competitors is that all services are localized for ease of use and convenience. However, our product would tie these services 
together into a much more easy to use platform. We would enable people to automate the use of information that a personal finance blog, while providing “middle  
man” payment services.



